# Folio Reflections

## Deciding on an Idea
#### 1
I was initially completely lost for what to do for my final folio. I think a big issue with this assignment is that I have very little idea of what is feasible within the confines of the programs we’re using and what I can reasonably expect myself to learn in the time we have. Normally, how I like to work is to just start writing my piece before I really know what it will be. I have faith in my own process that I know something will come about if I just experiment enough. But with digital literature, I can’t really just start writing, as I first need to figure out the form my piece will take, what program I will use and various other factors before I even really begin. Its very hard to decide on an idea if I can’t even really be sure that a) it will turn out even remotely how I want it to and b) that I even have the skills/knowledge necessary to execute it. I’m afraid of working towards a specific idea and only finding out later that it’s something I can’t feasibly achieve with the time that I have, as I just don’t have experience to know how long these things take. 

#### 2
I really want to experiment with form with this assignment, as the most interesting aspect of studying digital literature has been the conceptual experimentation of many of the pieces. I’m excited by the possibilities at my disposal, but also feeling a lot of pressure to innovate. I usually thrive in the sort of environment where I’m free to pursue whatever form of creative work I want, but there’s just this massive barrier when it comes to digital literature and a complete lack of knowledge about what’s even possible in the time frame. Even the size of the work seems difficult to discern, as I can’t just go by a simple word count or anything like that. 

#### 3
My first idea is a series of word puzzles, that act sort of like riddles, where the user needs to guess the answer. I was inspired by the reading on Riddles, Twisty Little Passages (Montfort, 2003), and its discussion about the different types of riddle, but also whether a riddle can be considered a form of interactive fiction. I’m personally a massive fan of cryptic crossword, and generally enjoy playing around with language. Yet I worry about the literary value of this, as it could end up just being a series of cryptic crossword clues that lean too heavily on the ‘game’ aspect. I would want them to tow the line between poems and riddles, or even interactive fiction, if there’s some overarching theme or narrative. 

#### 4
I spoke to my tutor about the idea, and also experimented writing some. I had some okay ideas, but I’m slowly realising that it might not work. I worry that they’ll end up being much more focused on the puzzle aspect than the literary aspect, and I just struggle to see how I could construct any kind of meaningful story out of it. It would be a matter of making sure all the puzzles maintain real poetic value above just the puzzle aspect. It would also just be a lot to take on. My instinct when deciding on a project like this has always been to just go with my gut. The first idea you have is most likely going to be the best, and you’re better off focusing on your gut response than endless indecisiveness.  Again, it’s just very difficult to guage these sorts of things as I have no concept of which ideas will lead to bigger problems down the road. This will require a bit more experimentation and trying new things. 


## Working on the Project
#### 1 
For my presentation, I looked at UFO Poems by Kevin Howbrook. This was a series of poems where text from sightings of UFOs was taken and formatting into poems in the style of E E Cummings. I had this rattling around in my brain and eventually came upon the idea of doing a similar thing but with Google reviews. The very first review I looked at simply said “A good place to sit and contemplate the futility of life”, and I immediately knew there was something here to be explored. After collected quite a bit of text from reviews I became more and more confident that I could go in this direction for my project. 

#### 2
My initial idea here was to find a way to present the poems in Twine, however there were just too many limitations I found with the formatting of Twine, so I explored the concept of coding individual websites myself. After learning a bit about HTML code and making some basic websites, I felt reading to make the decision that this was going to be my final project. 

#### 3
My folio proposal highlighted some positive aspects and some problems. The class seemed responsive to the idea, and interested in how it would turn out. I was pleased with the class discussion which gave me quite a few ideas as to how to explore the project further. My tutor highlighted that my projection of 50-60 poems may be a little high, and opened up the possibility of decreasing the scope somewhat. Overall, I feel confident in the direction of the work and look forward to exploring it further. 


#### 4 
Putting together this project has been quite a challenging experience. While I feel I now have a solid grasp of html concepts and the ability to experiment creatively in the project, and sheer amount of time it takes to put everything together has far exceeded my expectations. Coding naturally consumes much of the time and work going into this project, and I worry that it’s taking away from other aspects. Still, I’m happy with the overall direction of the project and all that I’ve done so far. I definitely need to take steps to limit the scope and complexity of the project, something that I anticipated might be necessary. This may involve reducing the amount of poems, and also looking at different ways I can interlink them. At the moment, I’m just trying my best to establish en efficient workflow so I can reduce any unnecessary handling involved with coding

#### 5 
The project has definitely ballooned to be a lot more complicated than I originally envisioned, and as such I’ve run into many problems. It was very difficult to discern early on how much time each part of the project would take, and so has naturally led to problems down the line. Even after writing the code for each site, I find I need to go back frequently to troubleshoot additional problems that have come up. Linking the sites to each other has been a source of difficulty for the project, and am still not quite sure how to go about it. 
